.\"
.\" surf API / surf_conf man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Dylan Eskew, Stephen Loudiana, Kevin McGrane
.\" * This software is under the terms of the BSD license.  * See README for more details.
.\"
.Dd April 5, 2022
.Dt SURF_CONF
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm conf_addEntry ,
.Nm conf_cleanNetworks ,
.Nm conf_configAuto ,
.Nm conf_configAutoEAP ,
.Nm conf_deleteNetwork ,
.Nm conf_editNetwork ,
.Nm conf_enableNetwork
.Nd functions to edit
.Xr wpa_supplicant(8) 's
current configuration file
.Sh LIBRARY
Surf Library (libsurf, -lsurf)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In "surf.h"
.Ft int
.Fn conf_addEntry "const char *ssid"
.Ft int
.Fn conf_cleanNetworks "void"
.Ft int
.Fn conf_configAuto "const char *ssid, const char *psk"
.Ft int
.Fn conf_configAutoEAP "const char *ssid, const char *usr, const char *pwd"
.Ft int
.Fn conf_deleteNetwork "const char *ssid"
.Ft int
.Fn conf_editNetwork "const char *ssid, const char *field, const char *value"
.Ft int
.Fn conf_enableNetwork "const char *ssid"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
These functions interact with
.Xr wpa_supplicant 8
to modify the configuration file that it is currently pointing at.
.Pp
The
.Fn conf_addEntry
function adds a new empty entry 
to the configuration file with the ssid field set to
.Fa ssid  . 
This is intended to be used with
.Fn conf_editNetwork
for manual configurations. Note: the new network entry is disabled
when created.
.Pp
The
.Fn conf_deleteNetwork
function deletes the configured network with name
.Fa ssid
from the current configuration.
.Fn conf_cleanNetworks 
works similarly except that it deletes
all configured networks from the configuration.
.Pp
The
.Fn conf_configAuto
function creates a new network entry which includes the
.Fa ssid
and 
.Fa psk
provided by the user and automatically includes the
remaining necessary information. If the
.Fa psk
is NULL, then the function will modify the configuration
accordingly to require no psk.
.Pp
.Fn conf_configAutoEAP
is similar to
.Fn conf_configAuto
except that it is specifically for EAP networks.
The function will add a new entry to the configuration
with the
.Fa ssid  ,
.Fa user  ,
and
.Fa pwd 
fields set accordingly.
.Pp
The
.Fn conf_editNetwork
function edits an existing network with the matching
.Fa ssid  .
The function will add the provided
.Fa value
to the provided
.Fa field
of the network configuration. When a network configuration
is edited, the network becomes disabled. Be sure to re-enable
the network with
.Fn conf_enableNetwork
when editing is finished. Note:
.Fn conf_editNetwork
will fail if invalid field or ssid is provided.
.Pp
The function
.Fn conf_enableNetwork
enables the network having
.Fa ssid  ,
allowing to be utilized by 
.Xr wpa_supplicant 8
in a connection.
Note: Disabled networks on reboot or reconnection to 
.Xr wpa_supplicant 8
may result in that network being lost.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
Functions will return 0 on success, -1 on a user input error, and -2 on a
wpa_supplicant related error. Note: user does include not being connected
to wpa_supplicant (call 
.Xr surf_init 3 ).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr surf 3  ,
.Xr surf_init 3 ,
.Xr surf_list 3 ,
.Xr wpa_supplicant 8 ,
.Xr wpa_supplicant.conf 5
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Dylan Eskew
